# Foreword 序

它不总是那么清晰，但是 Rust 确确实实是为了赋能：无论你正在使用哪种语言，Rust 能够让你更加深入开发，让你比过去更加自如的去面对更广泛的领域。
It wasn’t always so clear, but the Rust programming language is fundamentally
about _empowerment_: no matter what kind of code you are writing now, Rust
empowers you to reach farther, to program with confidence in a wider variety of
domains than you did before.

举例来说，处理内存管理，数据展现，并发等底层繁琐的“系统等级”工作。一般来说，这个领域的开发显然是晦涩难懂的，只有少数人选择花费必要的时间学习，能避开它的缺陷。即使谨慎的实践者，以免他们的代码被利用，崩溃或者一团乱。

Take, for example, “systems-level” work that deals with low-level details of
memory management, data representation, and concurrency. Traditionally, this
realm of programming is seen as arcane, accessible only to a select few who
have devoted the necessary years learning to avoid its infamous pitfalls. And
even those who practice it do so with caution, lest their code be open to
exploits, crashes, or corruption.

Rust 通过消除这些缺陷来打破这些障碍，提供友好优雅的工具集去帮你走下去。希望深入到底层的开发人员也可以用 Rust，无需担心崩溃或者安全漏洞的风险，不用去学习持续变化的工具链。设计好的语言可以指引你自然的写出可靠的代码，高效的处理速度和内存使用。

Rust breaks down these barriers by eliminating the old pitfalls and providing a
friendly, polished set of tools to help you along the way. Programmers who need
to “dip down” into lower-level control can do so with Rust, without taking on
the customary risk of crashes or security holes, and without having to learn
the fine points of a fickle toolchain. Better yet, the language is designed to
guide you naturally towards reliable code that is efficient in terms of speed
and memory usage.

已经和底层代码打交道的开发人员可以用 Rust 提升他们的信心。例如，Rust 中的提出的并行是相对低风险的操作：编译器为你捕获常规错误。然后你可以自信的在不会意外引入崩溃和缺陷的前提下在代码中处理更多激进的优化，

Programmers who are already working with low-level code can use Rust to raise
their ambitions. For example, introducing parallelism in Rust is a relatively
low-risk operation: the compiler will catch the classical mistakes for you. And
you can tackle more aggressive optimizations in your code with the confidence
that you won’t accidentally introduce crashes or vulnerabilities.

但是 Rust 不仅限于底层编码。它足够用来编写 CLI 应用，网络服务或者其他代码-你后续在书中可以找到例子。使用 Rust 将令你掌握不同领域的技能；你可以利用写网络应用来学习 Rust，利用这些通用的技能你拿到你的树莓派上。

But Rust isn’t limited to low-level systems programming. It’s expressive and
ergonomic enough to make CLI apps, web servers, and many other kinds of code
quite pleasant to write — you’ll find simple examples of both later in the
book. Working with Rust allows you to build skills that transfer from one
domain to another; you can learn Rust by writing a web app, then apply those
same skills to target your Raspberry Pi.

这本书里充满了为 Rust 用户提供的可能性。它友好亲切的文档不止提升你的 Rust 知识，也帮你成为一个一般意义上的开发人员。去探索吧，准备好学习-欢迎来到 Rust 社区！

This book fully embraces the potential of Rust to empower its users. It’s a
friendly and approachable text intended to help you level up not just your
knowledge of Rust, but also your reach and confidence as a programmer in
general. So dive in, get ready to learn—and welcome to the Rust community!

— Nicholas Matsakis and Aaron Turon
